if you're anything like me you are
rightfully tired of paying for monthly
subscriptions it feels like every day
there's something new that's demanding a
monthly fee whether it's a TV show you
like your car's heated seats or a piece
of software that you need for work the
corporate meta these days is you own
nothing you pay forever and you could
just lie there and take it or you can do
what we do and use your hyper nerd
powers to push back you can load your
media into a private Netflix with Plex
you can automate your home with home
assistant heck you can even host your
own cloud photo backup with image the
problem is all of those things require
at least some storage and more
critically some knowhow when it comes to
setup and maintenance now I'm sure that
most of you are more than capable of
figuring it out and you might even enjoy
the process but if you like me you
probably also enjoy relaxing at the end
of the day without your family
complaining that the garage doors won't
open and that Plex is buffering
what if there was a way to take that
complexity wrap it up in a nice little
package or interface if you will and
make it so that anyone could be their
home's Tech hero okay maybe not anyone
but the truth is I have no idea exactly
how user-friendly it is because even
though I invested
$250,000 into the idea that became hexos
over two years ago I have literally
never tried it until today like right
right now Jake is it any good I'm not
telling you before our
sponsor ODU don't let mismatching apps
slow down your business use ODU to make
your life easier check out their
all-in-one business Suite using our Link
in the video
description the story of why I decided
to invest in this is actually kind of
funny John from their team reached out
to let me know hey I'm leaving un raid
I'm going to embark on this crazy
Journey would you like to be an angel
investor and I kind of went yeah thank
you so much for thinking of me but I'm
out then the very next weekend I burned
an entire evening fighting with a new
trunz setup and well one thing led to
another and here it is to uh answer your
earlier question it's still pretty beta
so there is a lot that's missing but
what's available today in the Early
Access version they're launching it's
actually pretty promising exciting maybe
but we should probably give everyone a
quick tldr before we get into that cool
hexos what you're seeing on the screen
right now is an operating system like
say windows but purpose built for
running your own storage and your own
apps on your own Hardware whether that's
at home or a small business now none of
that is special network attached storage
or Nas operating system systems have
been around for longer than I have and
we have featured similar software like
traz and unraid numerous times over the
years the Special Sauce is that hexos is
designed to be easy to use even if
you're not a jake what's that supposed
to mean it means show me how to set it
up nerd well you've got your USB right
here have at her all got it yeah off the
floor now we could have used a fancy
pre-built server like we usually do but
we figured it'd be better to show it off
with something from eBay like this
Optiplex 3050 we got for 45 bucks it's
got solid quad core bones but it's
missing storage and only had a 1 gig
Network Port so we picked up a used 256
gig SSD to boot from an Intel 10 gig
network card and a pair of 4 TB C8 Nas
hard drives which fit as long as you're
willing to get a little bit creative
with the stubby from Mt store.com that
brings our total before accounting for
bulk storage to a nice
$69 nice we're going to have links to
those down in the video description if
you want to build something similar now
we've already updated the BIOS and if
you're rehabbing an old machine like
this it is a good idea for you to do the
same install-wise then it's the same as
any other OS plug in a bootable
installer USB you can make one of those
with the iso image and a tool like Rufus
or etcher hold your system setup key
configure to select your USB boot device
restart and you should be good to go oh
there is one thing if you want to run
virtual machines or apps you're also
going to want to make sure that
virtualization is enabled while you're
in the system setup once you're in the
installer hit install select your
desired boot storage administrative user
enter a password and hit install when
that's done remove the USB installer and
reboot pretty simple but it will
hopefully get even simpler in the future
how could that be simpler oh you're
actually asking yeah I actually just
going to remove steps oh cool all right
with the system booted head to the hexos
cloud dashboard and as long as your
system and you are on the same network
it should automatically detect it and be
ready for setup hit claim enter the
password you said earlier and this is it
I finally get to look at hexos and since
I know you guys are going to ask yes a
self hostable app for the dashboard will
be available in the future but for now
it's it's Cloud only save on magnetic
Cable Management screwdrivers and more
at LTT stores Black Friday sale deals
are still going on now so check them out
at the link below or at lm. g/ Black
Friday now you'll probably notice away
that everything is pretty guided it does
compatibility checks for you to ensure
that your Hardware is optimal and it
makes it easy to see if everything is
working click on the hard drives let's
see okay what do we got there oh yeah
it's got the USB we don't need that
anymore oh yeah we can take that didn't
follow our own instructions oops okay
and here's my storage yeah so it should
automatically set up your drives in the
most optimal configuration which for us
you can see with only two 4 TB drives
is either a raid Z1 or a mirror I think
it's a mirror yep okay so that allows
one of our drives to fail without any
data loss which actually does a really
good job of communicating extremely
clearly yeah one drive can fail 4 tabes
usable it's great what's cool is it'll
even create separate pools for ssds and
hard drives if you have both so you can
put performance sensitive data like uh
virtual discs for example on your ssds
and then all the rest of it on your
cheaper mechanical storage it is worth
noting that if we had more drives which
we could have if we threw an inexpensive
uh HBA card into our server it would
configure it differently according to
ZFS best practices so if we had like
five or six drives yeah but six drives
would probably do a raid Z2 so we could
lose two without losing any data fun
fact by the way if you're not trying to
do anything custom like setting a
non-standard array layout which by the
way will be supported in future releases
all you have to do is click a few times
click continue yeah I confirm that these
will be deleted I create a name for the
server your dad's Dell uh confirm that
you're going to wipe the drives and
that's it you've got your very own
network attached storage server ready to
go yeah that means owning your data in a
way that is not annoying to manage kind
of awesome in theory but what can it do
wait is it done already yes oh wow yeah
that's pretty cool yeah huh this is this
is actually surprisingly
friendly all of the features are
definitely not there but what is there
is is polished so this is the dashboard
right hey you got your processor that's
doing stuff you got your memory that's
also doing stuff yeah very clearly
labels the speed that your networking is
operating at I didn't notice that that's
cute yeah which one is that the one
that's working yeah oh look at the
little graph right there nice most
importantly our
storage Okay cool so what do we got here
uh we can expand this no we can't we
don't have extra drives oh oh that kind
of expansion yeah I thought it meant
expand the look at it the the view
drives you can do that okay cool I can
view drives nice I think you broke D
break it I I think I broke it already oh
you changed the networking settings oh
dude
dude this is why I'm such a good beta
tester did I click apply oh yeah no I I
totally clicked up you C 100% clicked
right that's why there was an alias
there cool all right okay we're back in
the Das trying storage we're trying to
look at the storage yeah I don't know
how we ended up there view drives hey
look at that we got some drives let's
go hey healthy device ID temperature a
lot of parts of the dashboard like this
have basic functionality but there is
stuff that's going to be added on later
like eventually you'll be able to go hey
run a smart test which is checking the
drive's health or see your old smart
test or schedule smart test but from a
basic standpoint anyway this is working
however we can't actually do anything
with it yet there's another step that we
need to go through before we can use our
storage over the network and that's
creating a folder or a share it does
take a couple of extra clicks uh okay
add a folder line of share and then
managing
permissions this is incredible this is
so need to add a user first simple uh
yeah sure fine I'll add a user L and
then I go into my folders oh boom
brother
dude I sent some long emails to John oh
yeah bless his heart poor guy um talking
about permissions and what a nightmare
it is on other Naas operating systems
just Drilling in guys it's got to be
simple and
this
dude this is the best I could have
possibly hoped for are you telling me
you don't want to learn how to do acl's
no no I just I just want to get my Linux
isos onto my network storage and off the
well right the idea here is that you can
make users for your kids your roommate
your spouse whatever and everyone can
have their own private place to put
files and you can either have readon
access or full access so I'm going to
give myself full access I'm just going
to make this a public share which I
wouldn't necessarily recommend doing but
hey it's there now so theoretically I
can just access this share immediately
yeah here click on this though oh sure
and then go click
browse there you go it tells you how to
do it oh oh oh cute yeah and you just
copy paste and click enter and you're
there I mean you didn't technically
follow the instructions they told you to
map it but you're there and there
there's actually if you click the drop
down it gives you the Mac instructions
too oh cute yeah wasn't that so easy how
long did that take you could probably
have done that in like 3 minutes look at
that it's done already yeah do another
one let's go it's a mirror so we're
limited to the speed of one hard drive
but I mean it just works right to be
clear there is nothing groundbreaking
about having a network share and being
able to copy some flipping files to it
but if you have ever set up trz you will
know that it takes a few more clicks and
probably some Google searches I have no
idea what you're talking about yeah
sure but while Simplicity sounds great
in theory when it comes to trusting
something that holds your precious data
you would hope that stability and
security would also be priorities and
they are and it's kind of the coolest
part see hexos is not a groundup project
that would have taken even more years to
pull off and frankly would have been a
complete waste of time which is why the
the team decided to build off of an
already respected storage system tras
for the uninitiated tras formerly known
as frez has been around in some form or
another for nearly two decades and while
their business focuses on reliable
performant open-source Enterprise grade
storage something that doesn't really
need to be home user friendly they also
love the idea of making it easier to use
which is why X systems is the other main
investor in hexos which gives them a
Financial incentive to ensure that hexos
is a success this collaboration is super
cool because even though hexos is built
for normies first all of that traz
goodness is still under the hood if you
know where to look and where is that
literally right here settings trass done
so if you want to do something hexos
doesn't do but trass does you can drop
into the trass interface and override it
no questions asked it also means that
hexos works with their existing Docker
apps and virtual machine functionality
it's prettyy cool until beta 2 comes out
in a few months you're only going to see
support for apps and as of shooting a
few weeks before this video goes live
only Plex and image are curated for
hexos so far Let's do let's do Plex and
then hit install okay and that's it
that's it that's literally it no
configuring storage
paths assigning resources
negative okay what if my Plex I wanted
GPU acceleration or something like that
have they got that solved that is not
there yet as you can imagine having only
two curated apps not a huge priority at
the moment but in the future the idea
would be you know like a drop down or a
checkbox yes I want to use my GPU but if
you go back to folders now yeah you'll
see that they're exposed so now they're
passed through as Network shares and if
you click on one of them like say media
go to browse copy the path you can just
copy movies right over all right because
of the design for userfriendly
these are public shares by default
which I was like I get it I hate it but
I get it hexos
test oh do we have any media files yeah
easy peasy dude this shouldn't be this
exciting this should just be how it's
always worked this is a $69 computer
yeah just like any random ancient
machine yeah just throw this on it and
Nas even just having the permissions so
that I can just click the one that says
movies and and that'll like if you do
the intuitive thing yeah it'll probably
be right yeah and that's it okay so we
can see everything here yep um I'm just
going to go to other videos despic just
like that boys hey and nobody can take
this content off the platform or take
away your access to it that compared to
the other times I've had to fight with
folder permissions in tras with Plex yep
wow okay now
image this one's even more challenging
it's actually kind of mindboggling that
these guys have been working away on
this after like me giving them some
funding and I have not even like asked
for an update you literally never even
looked at it they showed me like uh a
really early couple like screenshots of
what they were kind of thinking for the
vibe of the wizard yeah your email was
basically I will only give you this
money if if you just don't talk to me
about it until it's ready I don't have
time for I agree okay look at that so
that's it get started bloody H okay me I
mean we can't do anything about the
setup process of the apps themselves but
well you might be able to actually but
right now not a priority well put it on
your phone no way just download the app
there is absolutely no way that that
just works you have image already okay I
need to set a server end point
oh
perfect okay uh allow full access oh oh
my God are you just going to how many
photos are on this phone I a few there's
no
like the photos we wouldn't want to see
in there is there I should certainly
hope not so I just go to backup and then
I can select any uh album that I want to
back up from your phone from my from my
phone and then I go back and I click
backup and then just boom Hey look it's
boom look at it go that's such a cute
photo look at the kittens I know wow
look at that it works so you uploaded
that whole folder and it's done which is
great as long as you're on the same
local
network but to truly replace your
expensive subscription services like
Google photos you've got to be able to
use it when you're out and about that'll
be covered they'll be curating apps that
allow you to have a reverse proxy setup
with like a domain you could have
photos. lin.com and that would be a
relatively secure way to do it and I
also pitched John on maybe working with
cloudflare to integrate their access
zero trust setup which allows you to do
that but without port for redeem and you
can even like password protect it with
your Google account oh that would be
super cool um they're also going to have
wire guard VPN integrated soon for easy
remote access and they also also plan to
offer a fully integrated remote access
system by way of an inexpensive
subscription which yes I know a
subscription but doing that for free
wouldn't be sustainable and it's not
like you're forced to use it it reminds
me of Home assistant where the
subscription is it's kind of more of a
convenience thing you can 100% have home
assistant remotely accessible on your
own but it is inconvenient um I pay for
it and there's even more the original
reason for integrating wire guard was
actually for a feature that I have been
begging John to create for n years well
buddy backup this is going to be super
cool the idea is that if you and a paid
friend both have hexos you'll be able to
easily share storage capacity with each
other in a safe secure manner that way I
could back up my stuff to a separate
geographic location say for example your
house and you could back up your stuff
to my house and both of the shares would
be encrypted I'm not giving you what no
it it's encrypted I can't even access I
don't care I'm giving you my bites look
the point is that you can have a
mutually beneficial agreement to give
each other offsite backup you hear that
word said agreement what Jake oh you're
being so unhelpful right
now the point is that you'd be able to
share capacity with each other uh or
just file share with each other without
having to manually set up a solution for
that which is very doable today y but a
royal pain in the ARs yeah the file
sharing thing is I I could Vibe with
that uh man I got to tell you the real
reason I want to do this is so that I
can just build a giant off site backup
Target here and then like it'll be an
employment perk because as long as I
provide it for people other than myself
then it's taxfree that means it's free
right is it right off now here's the
pitch hexos is an awesome concept with
real backing and a passionate team but
unlike tress which it's based on it is
not free there are real people behind
this project and as much as I'd love to
it's not something that I can personally
fund forever so with all of that said
Till the the end of the day December 2nd
hexo's Early Access is finally available
to try out at the Black Friday only
price of $99 for a lifetime license one
payment access for life including any
and all future updates after the Black
Friday sale they plan to increase the
lifetime pricing to $1.99 during early
access and then $2.99 when it goes
retail with yes a cheaper monthly
subscription option coming sometime
later to reiterate it is very beta there
will be bugs which you can report on the
hexos forums and you shouldn't use it
for anything that you need to work
flawlessly like it'll probably be fine
in terms of data Integrity since it's
mostly just an interface for an existing
very stable and reliable product but I
have to give you guys that warning
regardless it's also not going to be the
only Nas software that we ever use or
mention again it's a focused product
that is meant for the HB Creator and
Tech dad market so while it would work
for a small business once it's ready
it's not going to replace a dedicated
hypervisor like prox MOX for instance
and if you already have a true Nas
system that's working perfectly fine it
doesn't yet support adopting an existing
install so it'll require reinstalling
but hey if you like myself believe in
the idea of owning your own data and you
want great Naas software that is
actually user friendly like I do and you
can afford to mess around with it on a
spare system the hexos folks and myself
would love for you to try it out and let
them know know what you think if you
absolutely hate it during the beta you
will be able to request a refund within
30 days and another separate note if
you're a typescript or n developer who
loves the idea they're hiring and the
info will be in the description overall
hexos takes our $69 NZ up to
$368 not as nice but what I like is that
it's an ecosystem you're not locked into
and that you can upgrade the hardware if
you want you can get a better machine or
you can beef up your existing one and
worst case if you don't like hexos or if
the company somehow implodes you can
just disconnect it from the dashboard
and you're essentially running traz I
really hope that doesn't happen but I
just wanted to make it clear here that
there will be options unlike all those
users that are running those vulnerable
dlink nazes that simply will never be
updated to fix it brutal like this
brutal segue to our sponsor ODU if
you're running a business keeping track
of a hundred different apps running at
once can be a pain but with odu's
all-in-one business management software
you can combine all of those into one
unified operating system that's right no
more worrying about how well one service
syncs with another odu's apps are all
interconnected check out their CRM and
sales apps which make lead generation
and closing deals a breeze their time
sheets app helps you keep track of your
employees schedules and their accounting
app lets you automatically create and
send invoices integrating with 28,000
Banks worldwide the best part is you
only need to choose the apps that your
business needs and if you only need one
single app to shore up some holes you
can even get access to that for free so
start saving time and resources by
unifying your processes with ODU check
them out in the description box for a
free 15-day trial or to set up a demo
with their expert team if you guys
enjoyed this video why not check out my
last home Naas build I cannot wait to
try this at my house because I have like
some super sick plants I am completely
out of storage dude me too I'm at like
88% utilized so many Linux hard drives
are so
expensive were you certified though
they're still expensive